From Hanselman it's dot
com. It's Hanselman. It's a
weekly discussion with web developer
and technologist Scott Hanselman hosted
by Carl Franklin. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing show number 35 recorded
Monday, October 2nd, 2006. Support for Hanselman
it's just provided by as
PPOs the.net and Java component
publisher Hanselman. His listeners get
20% off the price of
any purchase product or suite
with coupon code H M
one two three four five
six seven eight. online@wwwdotaspose.com and
by code Smith tools, makers
of code Smith and extensible
template based code generator for.net
Hanselman. This listeners get $100
off COVID Smith professional with
coupon code H M 100.
online@covidsmithtools.com. Support is also provided
by.net developers journal the world's
leading.net developer magazine online at
www dot  dot com.
In this episode, Scott talks
with Carl about HDT. Hi,
this is Carl Franklin. You're listening
to Hansel minutes. I'm here
with Scott again this week.
A great show last week
with Chris ELLs. I thought
Scott. Yeah, I thought it
went really well. It was
an interesting diversion. We might
try that a little bit
more. That'd be great when
famous people moved next door
to me. Absolutely. It was
a, it was fun. So
we're talking this week about
HDTV and HTMI and all
those diversion, right? A little
bit, not, not a, not
a technical thing. I mean,
well, it's technical, but it's
not developers. Right, right. Unless
you're writing video codecs yourself,
but you know, I posted
my blog recently that I've
been redoing the kitchen and
I did some tile and
we've been laying some new
floors and some new counters
and just various and sundry
things around the house. And
we decided to paint a
wall. So yesterday I took
down the shrine to the
screen. We've all got one
of those right in the
corner there. Right? Big stack
of components that have been
around forever. And in the
process, I said, Hey, this
is really kind of a
mess. I wanted to just
not just redo my room
and do some painting. But
I also wanted to redo
the way that we, we
kind of watched TV. We've
redone that a little bit
by having a, do you
know, a DVR? Do you
watch much TV girl? You
know, I do. And I
got my plasma 42 inch
in my high Def stuff
last year. Cool. And yeah,
it took me a while
to sort of figure out
how to use the thing,
you know, in terms of
what the TV watching behavior.
But now at the beginning
of the week, I go
through the, you know, the
list of shows that are
on the channels that I
like. And I pick off
the record, the ones I
want to watch all the
way through the week. And
then, you know, when I
get some free time, I
sit down and watch him.
And this was all in
high Def. Oh yeah. I'm
only watching high-def shows now.
And where do you get
that content come from? Where
does it come from? It's
cable, it's the local digital
cable service. And then they
give you a digital DVR
of some kind. They did.
It's a Motorola box. It's
someone that a lot of
People use, right? This would
be the Motorola 64 12.
I think, I think the
details on that are at
a shrink stir slash I
T J we've got Comcast
out here in Portland, Oregon
where I'm at. And we
have COVID Comcast, Motorola, HD
DVR as well. This is
a really crappy, crappy digital
video recorder. It's not very
good, but I do. I
get ahead of myself. So
we're redoing this, this living
room. We want to have
high Def, we've got high-def
now, but we want to
change the change, the experience,
because right now it's not
just turn the TV on
and turn up back in
the day it used to
be right, right now, it's,
I've got macros and fancy
remote controls and I've got,
I've got separate components, right?
So I have a, a,
an amplifier and all that
kind of stuff. It's way
too complicated. It is way
too complicated. It needs to
be much easier. So one
of the things that often
people get confused by like
first, what is HD? Because
a lot of people have
been running DVD players for
awhile. And for a few
years ago, everyone was trying
to say, Oh, I have
HD. When they really had
four 80 P or progressive
coming out of their DVD
player, kind of the first
thing that most people got
to see as far as
an improvement in television quality
was what are called anamorphic
DVDs. I had this on
an old Sony TV. This
is when you've got a
16 by nine ratio, right?
A widescreen DVD that you're
going to be watching on
a four by three, you
know, mostly square TV. This
is where they fill the
vertical space. They use all
those lines, all 480 lines
that the DVD player can
produce. They fill that up
rather than putting black bars
there. And then you're getting
more lines, more detail than
your TV. Squishes it back
to a normal ratio. You
can get details on anamorphic
DVDs. It shrinks your slash
ITB or at a widescreen
old Rama at shrinks or
slash ITC. So four 80
P is what DVD players
put out. And most of
the now are anamorphic. And
we don't even notice it.
We don't think about that.
Especially if you have a
widescreen TV, the system automatically
knows that 40 P widescreen
can be stretched to fill
most of a 16 by
nine screen. Now, what is
your, what is your, your
primary video connection done with
Carla's component or DVI or
HTMI It's HTMI although I
connect the computer with component
and I use HTMI from
the cable Box. Okay. So
you've got HDI going from
a Comcast Motorola directly into
your TV. Do you run
the audio through that? Well,
no. The audio is the
optical audio, which goes right
to my receiver. So with
HTMI, which is a, a
kind of connector, a video
connector, it includes audio on
it. If you want, this
was the, the studio's idea
to protect, to include protection
kind of in the hardware.
Cause HTML HTMI supports a
thing called a aided HD
HDCP I keep forgetting the
acronym. There's so many acronyms
here, but it's yeah, it
is a HTMI can have
protected content running on it
so that a TV could
say, I support HTMI as
an unprotected signal, but I
don't support this protection schemes.
I'm not going to let
you watch it. So there's
a lot of complaints right
now that some Vista machines
and some monitors won't be
compatible out of the box.
And they're going to say,
well, your monitor doesn't support
the protection scheme. We're not
going to let you watch
this. So what'll happen is
you'll get like a high
definition DVD. You'll plug it
in your monitor. Won't support.
Hi-def you'll get low Def
you may get it without
asking, or you may get
a warning. So there's component
video, which are basically those
old RCA cables, except there's
one for red, you know,
art, you know, there's did
ones for different colors, right?
And then they that'll run
anything up to and including,
you know, 10 80, very,
very high results. What I've
noticed. I don't know if
you've noticed it, but the
signal tends to get, it
tends to be a little
more susceptible to interference when
you're using component video. That
looks pretty good. But sometimes
you can get some weird
psychotic effects, Right? That's because
it's ultimately an analog signal
at that point. That's running
over those wires right now,
DVI and HTMI are a
lot less successful susceptible to
that because it's running a
digital now DVI we're familiar
with, because we'll see that
a lot on LCDs and
flat screen monitors. Mac is
really big on that. Although
sometimes the pins don't line
up. Well, you know, what's
weird is that we bought
our, our plasma TV last
year. It did not have
a DVI port on it.
And they basically said, no,
they're using all all using
HTMI now. But my brother's
got an older one with
DVI, which he just right
out of the video card
from his computer. Cause it's
got a DBI out blank.
I have to use a
transcoder Well, so interestingly though,
DVI and HD are pinout
compatible. If you have DVI
content, you can just buy
a regular DVI cable, go
to radio shack and get
a DVI to HTMI adapter
transcoder and it'll just plug
in directly. Oh, that's cool
to know DVI and HTMI
are actually pinout compatible. Wow.
Yeah. It's just that it's
a smaller container. So I
have DVI output coming from
my Motorola DVR, going directly
into a, a male DVI
to male HTMI adapter. It
looks like an old, you
know what that looks like.
It looks like a 25
pin serial to nine pin
serial adapter. It was like
20 bucks at radio shack.
And it'll actually take that
on a Mac and you
won't have to do any
transcoding and it doesn't interfere
with the signal. No, it
doesn't. Cause it's literally just
connecting pins to pins. It's
digital. Now this is why
I do that. So you
might say I have a,
a, an, a sharp LCD
in Aqua is LCD that
supports this new HTMI format.
Yeah, I have, but I
have one of those too.
Yeah. So, so you might
wonder why I'm running HTMI
is gonna be why I'm
running DVI. Actually, I ended
up moving away from HTMI
a couple of months ago,
there is a bug in
this particular Motorola DVR, and
you may have this depending
on the version of the
firmware that you have, that
you only get 5.1 Dolby
surround sound through the optical
when you're plugged into HTMI.
When you're watching live TV,
really? So on your DVR,
go to watch a live
HD channel. So you're watching
it absolutely live. You'll be
getting 5.1 Dolby. Now back
up, just back up 20
seconds. So then you're watching
data. That's coming off of
the hard drive. You will
switch back to Dolby two,
not 5.1. Your optical will
turn off and you'll go
back to a straight sound
and you won't get back
your full 5.1 until you
go live again. This is
a known bug in the
version 0.2 to firmware of
the Motorola, 65, 12. Oh,
not good. And this is
representative of the state of
affairs. I mean, here's a,
you know, here we are
on a podcast talking about
an obscure bug. People who
are paying attention and really
want to have the best
quality will notice this and,
and recognize this on their
Motorola 65 twelves Looking at
the I'm looking@thepictureonabroadbandatmotorola.com DVR, what
is the shrinks due to
that? The motor strength Yar
is at shrinks shrinker slash
I T J. And that
definitely is the one I
have now is this bug
fixable, is there a fix
for it or is it,
So it turns out that
the 0.2, three version of
the firmware has that, but
only some markets have chosen
to roll that out. So
you can go into your,
you know, your about box
in the menu somewhere and
see that or not. But
if you search for deep
for, for this, this bug
on Google, you'll find it.
And this actually made me
switch over to not using
HTMI cause it was so
frustrating and it had something
to do with this particular
device was unable to spit
out the audio through the
HTMI and through the optical
at the same exact time.
Now Me I'm using optical
for audio in HTMI for
video. Is that going to
affect me? It will affect
you because this particular device,
when you're live outputs, the
full 5.1 through both HTMI
and through the optical. Okay.
Back up, it doesn't either.
It doesn't either. So it's,
it's just, it's an example
of the confusion. So interestingly,
while the studios want us
using this new cable format
to transmit our video and
protected, protected content, and plus
audio, most people are buying
monitors and LCDs and plasmas
and flat screens that don't
really have great speakers on
them, right? So they're not
going to bother using HTML.
They're going to go and
use optical like, like you
and I are, which is
going to be really interesting
to see if people are
going to embrace a single
cable solution for all of
their, all of their issues.
So let's get back to
kind of talking about H
HDTV formats. So DVDs spit
out for ADP. That's not
high Def okay. So HD
by definition is at minimally
720 lines. So that's 1280
by seven 20 in a,
you know, in VGA speak,
right? Actually people usually refer
to it in terms of
horizontal lines, but within the
context of a computers, we'll
say it's 1280 by seven
20, and then progressive means
that the lines are painted
top to bottom. So that's
what the P in seven
20 P means versus something
like 10 80, I, where
you're going to get interlaced
first, you're going to get
every other, you know, like
at the odd numbered lines.
And then you'll come back
later and you'll get the
even numbered lines. Typically progressive
is considered to be a,
a more fluid and less
likely to cause trouble with
horizontal movements, like action movies,
where someone's running from left
to right. Really, really fast,
right. Sometimes you'll see those,
those interlaced things. Now the
pinnacle of HD is going
to be 10 80 P
and that's the one that
all the geeks are talking
about now, but there's really
no 10 80 P content
out there. Now what is,
as far as I'm concerned,
discovery HD is the most
consistently good looking channel on
my body. Exactly. So that's
the showcase channel. This is
the channel where the cable
guys have decided that we'll
compress this channel the least,
right? Because HD, for those
of us who know what
JPEG and MPEG artifacts look
like can walk up to
an HDTV and get close
and go, wow, this looks
like they've got, you know,
we, we used to call
these, you know, just Jay
Peggy, this is a very
Jay Peggy screen. It's got
the jaggies because they're squishing
the hell out of it.
They're trying to fit that
very, very large amount of
information in a very, very
small pipe. So the discovery
channel has very low compression
at Mo in most American
cable companies. I don't know
how that is overseas, but
if you look at certain
channels, like I've found that
Fox really squishes the heck
out of their stuff. Additionally,
Turner networking TNT has a
really lousy HD here in
the States. There's various levels
of compression. It's up to
the cable company to do
that. I've heard also, and
this is just anecdotally that
a number of satellite channels
don't have very high quality
a HD either, but the
discovery channel seems to be
the one that they want
to show people off. That's
the one you'll see at
the HD store. When you
go buy one, That's what
was playing. When I, when
I was checking out this,
it's just, we actually have
a public television station in
Connecticut that it's CCTV and
they have a high Def
channel, which is interesting. And,
and, but the thing that
really makes me mad is
that during the day it
works great at night, it
just stops working. And I,
I'm not sure if that's
planned or not, but it
seems like signal. Yeah. There's
no signal coming through. So
we get Barney in high
Def. But when you, when
all I want to see
Nova or something like that,
Oh, no, we can't show
that. Yeah, certainly it doesn't
have anything to HD as
a protocol. I would be
interested in finding out what's
going on with that. We
have a local public television
station here that could OPB
Oregon public broadcasting that has
a rock and sweet HD.
And we just got on
our new Comcast here on
the West coast. We just
got MTV and high death.
Wow. And MTV, and high-def
uses a little bit less
compression, but this is all
something I can't measure. Right.
This is just based on,
on gut. You look at
this after you've looked at
an NFL, it doesn't quite
feel right. It's just like
watching a really poorly encoded
DVD versus a really nice
and coated one. It also
depends on looking at DVDs
and then talking about HD
DVDs, whether or not the
person has put thought whoever's
in of this to put
a great deal of thought
into the encoding and whether
or not they try to
squish it into a single
layer or two layers. Now
coming soon as the HD
DVDs or Blu-ray, there's two
different competing formats here. We've
got a new hi-def DVD.
This is the one Microsoft
supporting. They've got the HD
DVD player coming out this
Christmas for the Xbox three
60. So it appears that
unless you want to spend
six, seven, 800 bucks on
a HD DVD player to
sheep has got one. You
can just buy an Xbox
three 60. You can get
those cheaper and cheaper now,
and then get the $200
add on HD DVD player.
Wow. Now Sony is going
to come up with a
one COVID, which is supporting
the alternative format called blue
Ray. And that'll be in
the Sony PlayStation blue Ray
supports 25 gigs per single
layer while HD DVD supports
15 gigs per single layer.
I also heard that they're
coming out where there is
failing. Actually didn't really work
is a new high Def
CD format, audio CD only,
but it turns out that,
you know, only two people
really care about it. Seeing
his house CD quality is
pretty near damn near perfect
with the a to D
converters that you get in,
even the cheapest CD players
these days, Right. They've been
trying to push, there was
a series CD. Then there
was SACD super audio CD,
right? They died within, yeah.
Now within DVDs, they're, they're
sending out 24 bit 90,
96 kilohertz data rather than
44 kilohertz. I've got a
story for you. Roger Nichols, who
engineered steely, Dan going back
and going back through the
years. And most recently, anyway,
not most recently, but he,
one of the steely Dan
albums that he engineered was
to against nature. This is
the one they want a
Grammy for when they came,
you know, from the dead
for last 17 years or
whatever. And this won a
Grammy, it's a wonderful sounding
CD. And he, you know,
there's big debate on the
audio engineering forms about 24
96 versus CD quality, 16
blah, blah, blah. The, basically
the entire industry recording industry
is pushing 24 96. So
Nichols is like, you know,
I've got golden years. I
couldn't hear the difference between
anything. And here's what they
did. They actually recorded and
mixed simultaneously this album in
24 96 and in good
old 16 bit 44, one
stereo. And at the end
of the day, when they
were listening to the mixes,
nobody in the studio could
tell the difference. They did
an AB blindfold test, not
even Roger Nichols, nobody in the
studio could tell the difference
between the two. Yeah. Until
you start talking about compression,
you know, I mean, it's
really about, it's really about
dynamic range, right? And you're
basically saying that uncompressed data
at these different sampling rates
was not distinguishable within this,
this, this range and with
this amount of resolution. Yeah.
Not just dynamic range, but
frequency range. The, you know,
the, the human ear can
only hear to what, not
even to 30 K and
so 40, 41 is, you
know, way beyond that. And
so, so it really it's,
you know, when you hear
people say, Oh, I can
tell the difference. You know,
I, I questioned them. I
mean, if Roger Nichols can't tell
the difference and the guy's
got the best years in
the industry, I do think
that people can tell the
difference in compression though. Okay.
Depression. Absolutely. I could tell
you an MP3 versus a
wave. Oh yeah. Sure. A
lot of people feel very
strongly about not buying music
from iTunes. And presumably that
we're going to see this
where people won't want to
buy a movie in a
compressed format because they're feeling
that they're buying data that's
already broken. Right, right. As
opposed to buying a CD
and then squishing it yourself,
you've got the pure wave
as opposed to buying a
copy of the copy. Plus
you'll feel like buying MP3
is like buying a mixed
tape. It's true. And especially,
you know, especially, well, heck
we encode this at 96
K you know, that not
all right. This is the
bit rate for the MP3
and coding 96 K. Right.
And it's really good for
speech, not so great for,
for audio. You could tell
in the music, you know,
if you're listening closely, you
can tell the music in
the beginning is a little
artifacting. So it's right on
the border of what's acceptable
to me anyway, as you
know, producer Now, interestingly though,
while people feel very, very
strongly about their audio, there's
a lot of discussion about
whether people care about these
higher resolutions, you know, it's,
it is my opinion. And
I think the opinion of
most folks who think about
this stuff that seven 20
P is a perfectly reasonable
resolution. And there are those
that feel that for ADP,
the resolution you see in
a DVD is totally reasonable
as well. Now there are
some calculators that you can
look at online that will
take the distance that you
sit in, in the size
of the screen, and then
tell you whether or not
you could possibly notice because
you know, the human eye
has a certain resolution. I
remember someone calculating it at
something like, you know, if
you could give someone an
image that was like 4,096,
by 4,096, that's basically the
resolution of the human eye
with the best, with the
best eyesight. Right. Exactly. Something
like that. I mean, there's
only so many rods and
cones in the back of
your eye, right? So this
viewing distance calculator, and there's
one of them at shrink
stir slash I T E
that would let you basically
say at the, at a
distance of 12 feet from
a 32 inch high Def
screen, you should not physically
be able to tell the
difference between four 80 and
seven 20, because the pixels
are just, are only done
in a certain way. Now,
one thing that's important to
remember, of course, when we're
talking about things like LCDs
or any display, that's a
fixed pixel display, whether you're
watching it in my picks,
my, my display has, has
1280. No, I think it's
actually 1378 by 1678. It's
a fixed pixel. Okay. If
I'm watching four 80 P
content off of a DVD
and I'm watching it at
the native resolution, they're going
to up sample it regardless.
Right? Right. So I want
to pick a resolution that
is the closest to what
I would ordinarily want to
watch. Right? This is why
a lot of HD TV
enthusiasts are saying that there's
a resurgence in the CRTs.
A lot of the new
Sony cathode Ray tubes, the
old, the old way of
doing things is actually a
better way to watch HD.
And with some of these
short throat CRTs, you can
get really thin, very, not,
not very deep, but quite
heavy glass flat tubes and
get some really amazing screens
because there's no fixed pixel.
It'll show you the resolution
that the resolution that it
was encoded in a while.
I'm always, even if I
watch 10 80, I can't
right. It's just going to
downgrade it to seven 68,
which is what my, my
LCD supports by default, you
get the same effect when
you're not using your computer
monitored, the full resolution. Exactly.
Now there's a great picture
up on Wikipedia at shrink
stir slash I T H,
that will show you the
different resolutions and what we're
talking about here. The idea
that the difference between four
80 P what a typical
DVD spits out in seven
20, what a typical HD
TVD can handle is four
X. You're looking at four
X improvement in quality. We're
talking about like four times
as many pixels. Wow. While
if you look at like
a 10 80 I, or
Trinity P it's, it's almost
that much more jumped up.
You're getting a hell of
a lot more pixels out
of a, a screen. So,
you know, six 40 by
four 80, basically the kind
of th that people kind
of say that NTSC, that
the U S style or
pal the European or African
style or sea cam, what
they used in France for
awhile were basically, they're kind
of the four 80 ilk
plus or minus. I mean,
some of them, like, I
think C cam could do
like five 20. And, but
for the most part, this
is just what they call
SD TV standard definition. Yeah,
exactly. Now, one of the
issues that I'm running into
is that I, since I
hate my Motorola, but I
like my premium channels is
how do I get away
from my cable company? I
want the, the pipe from
the cable company, or I
want the pipe from the
satellite dish company, but I
don't want the baggage of
their crappy box. So you
want to get a card
for your computer that has
HTMI inputs, right? Well, but
I want to have HBO
and the cable company or
the satellite company . So
this is where cable card
comes in. And there's information
in Wikipedia at shrink stir
slash ITF. And this is
basically a smart card for
your cable company that allow
it to it's a specification
that allows them to identify
you uniquely and decode some
of that premium content. Now,
what that doesn't allow you
to do is get some
of the on demand or
two way communication that a
lot of the cable companies
enjoy. Comcast has this notion
of on demand where I
can watch a high Def
movie and have it streamed
to me, cable card, doesn't
support that it would support
letting me watch Showtime or
HBO, but not those other
things. So it's going to
be 2007 or 2008 before
we can do that. But
Invista, they say about this
time next year, actually probably
spring next year, even earlier,
you'll be able to plug
cable card into the back
of one of these cars.
Like you just described an
HDTV card for Vista, and
probably a listener will send
me a link to one
that already exists, but you
could get as many cable
cards as you have tuners.
And these would help you
help the cable company, identify
you and give you high
Def content over the cable,
and also get the premium
channels that you would be
giving up. If you did
it today, Scott, whatever happened
to TiVo. Well, so TiVo
kinda was kinda quiet for
awhile because interestingly, we thought
that TiVo was going to
be taking over. And all
of the, all the cable
companies would give us DeVos,
but DVR technology was such
an obvious idea, and it
wasn't really something that was
patentable T voted lost out
in this Motorola. It seems
to be the one that
everyone's using TiVo just came
out with an IHD DVR
TiVo. I think it's series
three. And you can hear
about that shrinker slash ITI.
This is $800. It's got
dual hi-def tuners, but it's
$800. Now my Comcast is
15 bucks a month or
five bucks a month for
a rental. Now I hate
it with the heat of
a thousand suns. And it's
a steaming pile of poo,
but it's not 800 bucks.
You know, I enjoy my
TV, but I don't enjoy
it that much, that I'm
going to be such a
TiVo fan that I need
to have the little thumbs
up, thumbs down. So, you
know, I just don't see
it. And that's 800 bucks
before the TiVo subscription. Now
the Motorola does have, I
saw a, like a USB
connector for an external hard
drive. Is that what that's
for? So It's got that.
And, but it's not enabled
in the firmware, right? So
the Motorola has got a
lot of really cool stuff.
A lot of these devices
came out with USB or
with FireWire connectors and they
just haven't turned them on
yet. They assure us that
they will be turned on
because one of the first
things I'd like to do
with my Motorola is extend
the hard drive right now
it's got 160 gig drive,
120 to 120. I can
barely get 18 hours of
HD on the thing, right?
So I'm constantly chasing stuff.
We like to save an
entire season and wash it
at our leisure. Absolutely. We
don't believe in appointment TV.
I'm not going to rush
home. You know, I don't
know when, when houses on
the show, I like watching
now his house and my
wife, it might be Mondays.
I don't know. I watch
it when it's on the
thing, right? Whenever it shows
up, they might watch two
in a row. So I
like to be able to
keep a lot of this
information. And I'm really surprised
at the poultry sizes of
hard drives. I'd love to
hook up a terabyte and
see what I could do
with that. Now there's a
couple of really good links
to point folks at in
case I got things wrong.
There's how stuff works, has
got a thing on HDTV,
shrink, stir slash it. D
as in David a and
then what were the, one
of the websites, the blogs
that I read for information
about high Def and what's
on high Def this week
in, at least in the
States is N gadget HD,
which is at shrink stir
slash ITL. And this is
a site that used to
be called high Def beat
or HD beat. And now
it's part of end gadget,
which is a great website
in itself. And this will
tell you, what's playing in
the States on this particular
day and what resolution it's
running at and whether or
not they really think it's
worth. You're watching as a,
as a high Def person.
Because one of the things
that you'll hear just like
iPods have changed our lives
and GPS has changed our
lives. And I mean, changed
our lives in this more
fundamental way. I mean, if
you get an iPod, people
say that it just changed.
It gives your life a
soundtrack, right? It changes everything.
You get a GPS, you
don't get lost anymore. You
get a TiVo or a
replay or a DVR. It,
it changes the way you
watch TV. You watch more
of the shows you want
and less yeah. It's commercials
not flipping through crap. Yeah.
D is one of these
things. I think it was
interesting. The first thing you
said when I asked if
you had HD, was that
w you only watched HD,
right. Physically it's physically difficult
to watch standard definition TV,
right? You'd much rather watch
a sunset on the discovery
channel. Exactly. That's what I'd
rather watch it. If, of
course, if there's something that's
only on and on HD
that I really want to
see, I'll watch it. But
when I go to record
my shows for the week,
most of them are on
discovery HD. Yeah. Isn't that
interesting. Now, there are some
channels that try to fool
us. Like when Fox coming
up before HD, when Fox
was still a new network,
they came up with this
thing called Fox widescreen, which
was basically digital four 80
a widescreen TV, but it's
not high definition shrink stir
slash I T H. So
you really have to watch
that little, that little blurb
at the beginning of the
show to tell you whether
or not what you're watching
is potentially available in high
Def or not. And depending
on what market you live
in, you may not be
able to find those shows.
For example, CVS here in,
in Oregon was not available
for a number of years
in high-def because of an
ongoing feud between the high
Def feed owner and the
com and the Comcast cable
operator. They wanted to charge
Comcast didn't want to pay.
We had every network in
the States in hi-def except
this one. So interestingly high-def
enthusiast simply stopped watching that
channel. Now, of course, I
do watch baseball on a
Nesson the new England sports
network and watch the red
Sox in high Def. That
is an amazing experience. And
of course, ESPN has their,
Yeah. Interestingly, I'm totally not
a sports person. I could
really care less. I couldn't
care less actually, but you
know, every once in a
while, I'll I'll come on
and I'll see a, a,
a, a football game trying
to think of the name
of the sport there for
a second. Almost slipped my
mind. Yeah. You know, big
guys with helmets. Well, the
baseball myself personally, much to
Huckabee's chagrin, he's trying to
get me to watch more
football and soccer and stuff.
Tim Huckabee probably has a
very large high definition screen.
If I know him well,
I will watch sports just
because it's in such clarity,
particularly tennis is really just
amazing. Yeah. I mean, you
can see the faces of
the people in the, in
the crowd. And of course
running any Xbox game in
hi-def is pretty amazing. I
just want to put this
plug in there that discovery
channel HD channel is doing
a series called Atlas HD
in which they have taken
crews all over the world
to make documentaries of different
cultures. And so the current
one is on China and
the photography, the cinematography is
just beautiful. It's unbelievable. They
they've took, took these ultra
high resolution film of these
Buddhists amongst, I think they
might've been Kung Fu students
that were banging drums that
had water on them and
the water was splashing up
and they slowed it down
and it was still slowed
down. It was fast enough
where you could not see
it, you know, it was
just so fluid. They also
did the matrix. They do
the matrix style, set up
a row of cameras, you
know, in between two video
cameras and then roll everything
at once and then take
the snapshots and then animate
them, you know, how they
do that, that matrix move.
Did you know that? Well,
they have, they have a
bunch of cameras on a,
on a track, On a
track. Yeah, well basically they
have a track of cameras
that match in resolution, the
video cameras. They have one
video camera on one side
and one video camera on
a 90 degree angle. And
then this string of regular
cameras and they were all
running at the same time.
And then they just snap
the photos, snap the cameras
at the same time. And
then they go back and
they make a bridge of
frames, camera frames with the
still shots to, to walk
from one camera to the
other. That's how they do
that. And they're doing that.
They were doing that with
this woman who was tossing
some rice in a pan
and you see her on
the side and the rice
goes up and then it
stops and then swings over
in front of her. And
you can see it comes
in real close and you
can see her name implies
Atlas, D Atlas HD. I
got to check that out.
It's unbelievable. Yeah. One last
thing that I want to
add is that if you're
thinking about going HD, you
really have to think about
where's your source going to
be? Is it going to
be your satellite or your
local cable company, or are
going to be over the
air? Because one of the
things that we didn't mention
is that you can just
buy an antenna to get
back on the, get back
on the roof and pull
HD out of the air.
There's nothing wrong with that.
You'll just get your local
channels in HD on different,
on different digital channels. I
did that with an ATI
all in wonder HD, which
is a very lousy card.
I think there's any by
any HD card except that
one. And you'll have a
good success. The new service
pack roll up of windows
media center in 2005 and
or Vista ultimate support hi-def
tuners. So you can watch
high Def and record it
on your Vista machine. But
I would also encourage you
to think about if you're
a, you know, kind of
an enthusiast, if you've got
separate components, let's put it
that way. If you have
a separate receiver, think about
D what do you want
to do your video switching?
Do you want to plug
all of your video, your
DVD player, your HD, your
X-Box directly into your TV
directly into your television or
monitor. And then that case
you're limited by the inputs
that are available on your
particular monitor, or do you
want to have a receiver
that's smart enough to do
this work for you? Now,
I recently selected an onco
receiver at shrink stir slash
it nine, because this is
what's called an upconverting receiver.
It's a video switching receiver,
which means that both the
video and the audio will
switch when I select an
input on this and it
will up convert whatever input
I give it to in
my case HTMI, but it's
going to up convert. This
is a difference between upscaling.
So it's still going to
take that signal. It's going
to basically take the signal
and put it on the
other wire, but it's not
necessarily going to upscale. Only
very, very high quality devices
will up, will upscale. So
meaning taking four ATP and
turn it into seven 20,
or turn it into a
10 80. And, and additionally,
there are actually some rules
with the, the HTMI about
what's allowed to up convert.
For example, the X-Box has
the capability to take a
four ADP DVD and make
it high Def basically doing
a, you know, re sample
it's inventing pixels, of course,
but it would make it
more than native resolution, but
that's not legal. You're not
allowed to do that over
anything other than HTMI, you
can't take a, I, don't
not quite sure whether this
is a technical rule or
a legal rule, but they're
not allowed to take for
ADP and turn it into
40 P and then output
it on anything other than
this high HDCP this high
definition, protected content protocol. But
if you're thinking about going
HD, and you're gonna go
and spend a couple of
grand on a, a new
monitor, think about spending a
couple hundred bucks on a
really nice receiver that will
do this up conversion for
you. And you'll find that
the, the, the trouble you
have to go to, to
switch between inputs is going
to be a lot, a
lot diminished, a great deal.
I've found that, trying to
change the input on my
receiver and change the input
of my TV all with
macros has been a lot
of a big hassle. And
I'm looking forward to hooking
this on cue up. I
picked it up yesterday. I
saw it at the store
doing its work, and I'll
kind of report back on
that later on my blog,
but be thinking about what
your video source switching strategy
is going to be. Scott,
I have a, another thing
to add to the mix.
I have this universal remote
control from Phillips that has
a little LCD screen on
it, and it basically learns
all of your setups. I
couldn't find here just while
you were talking, I couldn't
find a link to it,
but I found another, you
know, I guess it's their
current line of home theater
control panels, the Pronto, and
it's at shrink, sir.com/i T
O not zero, but I
T O ITTO as in
judge ITO, and I don't
know where that came from
and it, it, it was
very cool. The one that
I have anyway was very
cool. It just says, it
goes through all of your
peripherals and allows you to
hook them up. And then
you create these scenarios home,
you know, DVD cable, stereo,
and it just creates these
buttons on the screen. And
then you press one button
and it turns on and
off and set it. Does
it deal with a macro
or does it notice it
all with a single macro?
Is it, is it, does
it know the state of
the system? What happens if
someone walks in front of
them? That has been the
only problem that's been the
only problem with this thing,
it doesn't get feedback in
terms of, you know, what
the current state is. So
if you have any kind
of toggle switches and they
get out of sync, then
you have to get up
and flip the switch manually.
So I use a harmony
eight 80 remote control. I've
got a review at shrink
stir slash ITP, and the
harmony is a similar device.
It's got a color screen
and except you use a
website to configure it. You
actually go online, you walk
through a wizard and then
you download a packet using
a USB cable into the
device. And it does similar
things. You can say, activity,
watch a DVD, and it'll
do whatever it takes, but
it's kind of like, this
is going to be an
obscure Microsoft reference, but it's
kind of like MSI for
remote controls because like MSI,
installer technology, isn't really a
series of procedural descriptions, like
do this, like macro is,
it's a description of the
state that you'd like it
to be in. That's nice.
So what it does is
it says, knowing what I
know about the system, I
will put it into this
state. And then if you
get confused, say a kid
walks in front of the
remote, you can say help.
And it'll then say, is
the TV on yes or
no? And it'll walk you
through a host and then
resync, the state it'll have
the Phillips has that too.
It does have that control.
But I mean, there isn't
any substitute for actually having
the thing, know what the
current state is, which exam,
unless you have discreet inputs,
right? So in, in the
parlance of infrared, remote controls,
that discreet input is the
ability to say not toggle
power, but turn on, switch
to input one. That's another
thing to be thinking about.
If you do want to
put together a complete home
theater system, that if, if
every device you have has
a discreet input, then your
switching experience will be, will
be much nicer. That's the
one thing that I hate
about my sharp Aqua is
that the Aqua LCD does
not include discreet inputs. So
I have to go through
some macro trouble, which is
one of the reasons that
I selected a video switching
receiver in the first place.
Very good. Is that a
show Scott, that was a
random collection of geeks talking
about, about TVs. Very cool.
We have to revisit this
topic every once in a
while because the technology changes,
obviously I agree. Looking forward
to the next time we
talked about it until then,
we'll see you next week
on Hansel minutes.